README.md, before:

# cfg2html (Config to HTML)

## Overview
**cfg2html** is a little utility to collect the necessary system configuration files and system set-up to an ASCII file and HTML file. Simple to use and very helpful in disaster recovery situations.

## Purpose
cfg2html collects the system configuration into a HTML and a text file. cfg2html is the “Swiss army knife” for the sysadmins. It was written to get the necessary information to plan an update, to perform basic trouble shooting or performance analysis. As a bonus cfg2html creates a nice HTML and plain ASCII documentation from your System.

This include the collection of Cron and At, installed Hardware, installed Software, Filesystems, Dump- and Swap-configuration, LVM, Network Settings, Kernel, System enhancements and Applications, Subsystems.

## Where to get cfg2html?
The first versions of cfg2html were written for HP-UX. Meanwhile the cfg2html HP-UX stream was ported to all major *NIX platforms and small embedded systems. cfg2html works on Linux, HP-UX, SunSO, AIX etc.

See our GitHub Source development tree https://github.com/cfg2html/cfg2html and clone it to your system via:

    git clone git@github.com:cfg2html/cfg2html.git
    cd cfg2html
    make help

If you do not want to build cfg2html by your own, we have pre-build installations you can download from http://www.cfg2html.com

If you find a problem, a bug or have some bright new ideas please create a new issue https://github.com/cfg2html/cfg2html/issues at our GitHub project pages.

----
$Id: README.md,v 6.6 2018/01/04 22:22:37 ralph Exp $


<!-- Atom:set encoding=utf8 lineEnding=unix grammar=md tabLength=2 useSoftTabs: -->

Commit message:

enhanced the issue tracker section

README.md, after:

# cfg2html (Config to HTML)

## Overview
**cfg2html** is a little utility to collect the necessary system configuration files and system set-up to an ASCII file and HTML file. Simple to use and very helpful in disaster recovery situations.

## Purpose
cfg2html collects the system configuration into a HTML and a text file. cfg2html is the “Swiss army knife” for the sysadmins. It was written to get the necessary information to plan an update, to perform basic trouble shooting or performance analysis. As a bonus cfg2html creates a nice HTML and plain ASCII documentation from your System.

This include the collection of Cron and At, installed Hardware, installed Software, Filesystems, Dump- and Swap-configuration, LVM, Network Settings, Kernel, System enhancements and Applications, Subsystems.

## Where to get cfg2html?
The first versions of cfg2html were written for HP-UX. Meanwhile the cfg2html HP-UX stream was ported to all major *NIX platforms and small embedded systems. cfg2html works on Linux, HP-UX, SunOS, AIX etc.

See our GitHub Source development tree https://github.com/cfg2html/cfg2html and clone it to your system via:

    git clone git@github.com:cfg2html/cfg2html.git
    cd cfg2html
    make help

If you do not want to build cfg2html by your own, we have pre-build installations you can download from http://www.cfg2html.com

## Issue Tracker
If you find a problem, a bug, want to discuss feature requests or have some bright new ideas please create a new issue  at our GitHub project pages https://github.com/cfg2html/cfg2html/issues. When using it, please ensure that any criticism you provide is constructive. Please do not use the issue tracker for general help and support on how to use cfg2html.

----
$Id: README.md,v 6.7 2018/02/08 21:48:33 ralph Exp $


<!-- Atom:set encoding=utf8 lineEnding=unix grammar=md tabLength=2 useSoftTabs: -->
