.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2013 by and Ralph Roth (rar) and Gratien D'haese (gd)
.\"$Id:  Exp $
.TA c
.TH cfg2html 8
.ds )H GNU GPL v3
.ds ]W HP-UX Release 11i v1,2,3
.SH NAME
cfg2html \- creates a nice HTML and plain ASCII documentation of your GNU/Linux system. WARNING, use this script AT YOUR OWN RISK.
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B cfg2html
.RB [ \-o012vhADFHLSMUPacdefklns ]
.IR option ...
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cfg2html
script is the "swiss army knife" for the consultant, support engineer, customer engineer, sysadmin etc. We wrote it to get the necessary information to plan an update,
to perform basic trouble shooting or performance analysis. As a bonus
.B cfg2html
creates a nice HTML and plain ASCII documentation. If you like,
write your description of the system into
.B /etc/cfg2html/systeminfo

example:
.TP
  Main database server using special software.
  Contact: Micky Mouse <admin@foo.bar>
  Location: Mars Moon
.TP
and so on.

.TP
.B /etc/cfg2html/local.conf
if this file exists, you can add your own OUTPUT_URL location, e.g.
.TP
  OUTPUT_URL=nfs://your-nfs-server/cfg2html-data/
Beneath the path of the cfg2html-data directory subdirectories will be created per hostname.

.SS Switches
The following switches are available from the command line:
.TP
.B \-o
set directory to write or use the environment
variable OUTDIR="/path/to/dir" (directory will be created if necessary)
.TP
.B \-0
append the current date+time to the output files (D-M-Y-hhmm)
.TP
.B \-1
append the current date to the output files (Day-Month-Year)
.TP
.B \-2 modifier
like option -1, you can use date +modifier, e.g. -2%d%m
.IP
DO NOT use spaces for the filename, e.g.
.C -2%c
.TP
.B \-v
output version information and exit
.TP
.B \-h
display this help and exit

.IP
Use the following options to enable or disable collections:
.TP
.B \-A
enable:  SAP collector
.TP
.B \-D
enable:  Debug, dumps settings to stdout
.TP
.B \-F
disable: Fibre channel
.TP
.B \-H
disable: Hardware
.TP
.B \-L
disable: Screen tips inline
.TP
.B \-S
disable: Software
.TP
.B \-M
disable: Serviceguard and Quorum Server collector
.TP
.B \-U
disable: User accounts/security sensitive data collection
.TP
.B \-P
enable: cfg2html plugin architecture

.TP
.B \-a
disable: Applications
.TP
.B \-c
disable: Cron
.TP
.B \-d
disable: Diagnostics (cstm) [obsolete?]
.TP
.B \-e
disable: Enhancements
.TP
.B \-f
disable: File system
.TP
.B \-k
disable: Kernel/Boot
.TP
.B \-l
disable: LVM
.TP
.B \-n
disable: Network
.TP
.B \-s
disable: System

.TP
Example:
.B /usr/sbin/cfg2html \-AL \-o /tmp/hp
to collect EVERYTHING

A shell wrapper with handy options is included into this distribution,
simply try:
.B cfg2html
calls
.B cfg2html_hpux.sh \-o /var/log/cfg2html


.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/cfg2html
The wrapper script (same for HP-UX and Linux).
.TP
.B /usr/share/cfg2html/cfg2html-hpux.sh
The main script.
.TP
.B /usr/share/cfg2html/lib/*
The library functions for cfg2html.
.TP
.B /usr/share/cfg2html/plugins/*
The plugin directory containing individual collector scripts.
.TP
.B /etc/cfg2html/local.conf
your output
.B OUTPUT_URL
description

.TP
.B <hostname>.html
the documentation in html form
.TP
.B <hostname>.txt
the documentation in ascii form
.TP
.B <hostname>.err
error logfile
.TP
.B <hostname>._xpinfo.csv
(only on systems connected to HP Surestore Disk Arrays): the output of the xpinfo command
.TP
.B /usr/share/man/man8.Z/cfg2html.8
The man page.
.TP
.B history_hpux.txt
Revision history for
.BR cfg2html.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B README_hpux.txt
and
.B history_hpux.txt
file in the doc directory.

.SH NOTES
Only
.B root
can run the
.B cfg2html
script.  For security reasons it is better to store the HTML and ASCII files
in a safe place where only root user have access or remove the
files from your file system.

.SH CONTACTING
If you like the script, and you want to learn more about
the  script,  or  want to see a feature added to it that
isn't already here, then please subscribe to the project mailing list.
The project web page is at
.B http://www.cfg2html.com
and
.B http://groups.yahoo.com/cfg2html

.SH WARNINGS
use the
.B cfg2html
script at your own risk!
.SH DIAGNOSTICS

.B cfg2html
writes errors to <hostname>.err

.SH BUGS
There are probably a lot of bugs.  We are currently using this script
successfully for our own systems, but there are lot of features included
that we don't have any way to test right now. If you find a bug or have a
comment or suggestion about the script, please email them at the address
in the
.I AUTHORS
section. We love to hear from you. :-)

.SH AUTHORS
Original cfg2html HP-UX version written by Ralph Roth <rose_swe@hotmail.com>

See the source code and changelog for complete history and credits.
