.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Dusan Baljevic <dusan.baljevic@ieee.org> and Ralph Roth
.\"$Id: cfg2html.8,v 6.4 2014/05/25 16:20:04 dusan Exp $

.TH cfg2html-SunOS 8 "25.05.2014"

.SH NAME
cfg2html-SunOS.sh \- creates a nice HTML and plain ASCII documentation of your SunOS/Solaris system. WARNING, use this script AT YOUR OWN RISK.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B cfg2html-SunOS.sh
.RB [ \-ovabcCdDefFhHklLnpPsSx ]
.IR option ...
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B cfg2html-SunOS.sh
script is the "swiss army knife" for the consultant, support engineer, customer engineer, sysadmin etc. We wrote it to get the necessary information to plan an update,
to perform basic trouble shooting or performance analysis. As a bonus
.B cfg2html
creates a nice HTML and plain ASCII documentation. If you like,
write your description of the system into
.B /etc/cfg2html/systeminfo

example:
.TP
  Main database server using special software.
.TP
  Contact: Micky Mouse <admin@foo.bar>
.TP
  Location: Mars Moon
.TP
and so on.

.TP
.B /etc/cfg2html/files
if this file exists, you can add your own files to collect - see example included.

.SS Switches
The following switches are available from the command line:
.TP
.B \-o
set directory to write or use the environment
variable OUTDIR="/path/to/dir" (directory must exist)
.TP
.B \-v
print version information and exit
.TP
.B \-h
print help options and exit 
.BR

use the following options to disable collections:
.TP
.B \-a
disable: Applications
.TP
.B \-b
disable: Boot System
.TP
.B \-c
disable: Cron
.TP
.B \-C
disable: Cluster
.TP
.B \-d
disable: Disks
.TP
.B \-D
disable: Volume Manager
.TP
.B \-e
enable: Plugins
.TP
.B \-f
disable: Filesystems
.TP
.B \-F
disable: Local files in /etc/cfg2html/files
.TP
.B \-H
disable: Hardware
.TP
.B \-k
disable: Kernel
.TP
.B \-l
disable: Files
.TP
.B \-L
disable: Licenses
.TP
.B \-n
disable: Network
.TP
.B \-p
disable: Password
.TP
.B \-P
disable: Printing
.TP
.B \-s
disable: System
.TP
.B \-S
disable: Software
.TP
.B \-x
don't create background images

.SH FILES

.TP
.B /usr/sbin/cfg2html
The front-end script.
.TP
.B /usr/share/cfg2html/cfg2html-SunOS.sh
The script.

.TP
.B /etc/cfg2html/systeminfo
your system description

.TP
.B /etc/cfg2html/files
collect your own files

.TP
.B <hostname>.html
the documentation in html form

.TP
.B <hostname>.txt
the documentation in ascii form

.TP
.B <hostname>.err
error logfile

.TP
.B /usr/share/man/man8/cfg2html.8.gz
The man page.

.TP
.B README
Additional documentation and installation instructions.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.B README
and
.B AUTHORS
file in the source directory.

.SH NOTES
Only
.B root
can run the
.B cfg2html-SunOS.sh
script. For security reasons it is better to store the HTML and ASCII files
in a safe place where only root user have access or remove the
files from your file system.

.SH CONTACTING
If you like the script, and you want to learn more about
the  script,  or  want to see a feature added to it that
isn't already here, then please subscribe to the project mailing list.
The project web page is at
.B http://www.cfg2html.com
the mailing list is at
.B http://groups.yahoo.com/cfg2html
and the source code is hosted on
.B https://github.com/cfg2html/cfg2html

.SH WARNINGS
use the
.B cfg2html-SunOS.sh
script at your own risk!
.SH DIAGNOSTICS

.B cfg2html-SunOS.sh
writes errors to <hostname>.err

.SH BUGS
There are probably some bugs. This script is 
successfully used on many systems. If you find a bug or have a
comment or suggestion about the script, please email them at the address
in the
.I AUTHORS
section. We love to hear from you :-)

.SH AUTHORS
Original cfg2html HP-UX version written by Ralph Roth <cfg2html@hotmail.com>
and next-generation ported to Solaris by Dusan Baljevic <dusan.baljevic@ieee.org>.
.SH MAINTAINERS
GIThub repository is maintained by Ralph Roth and Gratien D'haese.
See the source code for complete history and credits.
