.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2013 by MIchael MEifert <dk3hg@users.sourceforge.net> and Ralph Roth (rar)
.\"$Id: cfg2html-linux.8,v 2.13 2013-02-08 21:48:34 ralph Exp $

.TH cfg2html-linux 8 "24.01.2013" "mime/rar"

.SH NAME
cfg2html-linux \- creates a nice HTML and plain ASCII documentation of your GNU/Linux system. WARNING, use this script AT YOUR OWN RISK.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B cfg2html-linux
.RB [ \-oxshcSflkenaHvh ]
.IR option ...
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B cfg2html-linux
script is the "swiss army knife" for the consultant, support engineer, customer engineer, sysadmin etc. We wrote it to get the necessary information to plan an update,
to perform basic trouble shooting or performance analysis. As a bonus
.B cfg2html
creates a nice HTML and plain ASCII documentation. If you like,
write your description of the system into
.B /etc/cfg2html/systeminfo

example:
.TP
  Main database server using special software.
.TP
  Contact: Micky Mouse <admin@foo.bar>
.TP
  Location: Mars Moon
.TP
and so on.

.TP
.B /etc/cfg2html/files
if this file exists, you can add your own files to collect - see example included.

.SS Switches
The following switches are available from the command line:
.TP
.B \-o
set directory to write or use the environment
variable OUTDIR="/path/to/dir" (directory must exist)
.TP
.B \-v
output version information and exit
.BR

use the following options to disable collections:
.TP
.B \-s
disable: System
.TP
.B \-c
disable: Cron
.TP
.B \-S
disable: Software
.TP
.B \-f
disable: Filesystem
.TP
.B \-l
disable: LVM
.TP
.B \-k
disable: Kernel
.TP
.B \-e
disable: Enhancements
.TP
.B \-n
disable: Network
.TP
.B \-a
disable: Applications
.TP
.B \-H
disable: Hardware
.TP
.B \-x
don't create background images

.SH FILES

.TP
.B /usr/bin/cfg2html-linux
The script.

.TP
.B /etc/cfg2html/systeminfo
your system description

.TP
.B /etc/cfg2html/files
collect your own files

.TP
.B <hostname>.html
the documentation in html form

.TP
.B <hostname>.txt
the documentation in ascii form

.TP
.B <hostname>.err
error logfile

.TP
.B <hostname>.partitions.save
Disk Partitions to restore from

.TP
.B <hostname>._xpinfo.csv
(only on systems connected to HP Surestore Disk Arrays): the output of the xpinfo command

.TP
.B /usr/share/man/man8/cfg2html-linux.8.gz
The man page.

.TP
.B README
Additional documentation and installation instructions.

.TP
.B changelog
Revision history for
.BR cfg2html-linux.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.B README, License.txt
and
.B changelog
file in the source directory.

.SH NOTES
Only
.B root
can run the
.B cfg2html-linux script.
For security reasons it is better to store the HTML and ASCII files
in a safe place where only root user have access or remove the
files from your file system.

.SH CONTACTING
If you like the script, and you want to learn more about
the  script,  or  want to see a feature added to it that
isn't already here, then please subscribe to the project mailing list.
The project web page is at
.B http://www.cfg2html.com
and
.B http://groups.yahoo.com/cfg2html

.SH WARNINGS
use the
.B cfg2html-linux script
at your own risk! See License.txt for details!
.SH DIAGNOSTICS

.B cfg2html-linux
writes errors to <hostname>.err

.SH BUGS
There are probably a lot of bugs.  We are currently using this script
successfully for our own systems, but there are lot of features included
that we don't have any way to test right now. If you find a bug or have a
comment or suggestion about the script, please email them at the address
in the
.I AUTHORS
section. We love to hear from you. :-)

.SH AUTHORS
Original cfg2html HP-UX version written by Ralph Roth <rose_swe@hotmail.com>
and ported to Linux by Michael Meifert <dk3hg@users.sourceforge.net>, maintained by Ralph Roth.

See the source code and changelog for complete history and credits.
